[MUSIC]
The service-oriented approach
to linking software systems and
applications is transforming the way
many organizations share data.
This approach improves existing
methods of data sharing,
by providing a service
layer between systems.
Sharing data between applications
is a well-established principle
that works on a simple level.
As systems expand, the solution that
connects two software applications
will often not work for a third.
What began as a workable system,
then locks valuable data in a silo.
Sharing the data is still possible,
but requires adaptations and tweaks.
The process is laborious and
time consuming,
leading to bottlenecks and overload.
The reality of this world is unnecessary
effort expended in duplication of data.
[MUSIC]
By applying a service layer to
the applications you wish to connect up,
data is offered up in a common format for
reuse elsewhere.
The service-oriented approach works
with existing software systems and
does not require you to remove
the monolithic application.
Replacement applications reuse
the links already made and
can plug into the service layer
without affecting other users of the data.
New applications can be added to
grow overall system architectures in
the same way.
The data in each application,
is offered up as a service which
any other application can consume.
When the service-oriented approach is
evolved into a system-wide architecture,
it allows connections and
service sharing opportunities between
organizations nationally and globally.
[MUSIC]
Take monitoring of student progress for
example.
Results are logged by a virtual learning
environment, but how much of that data is
shared with a management system that is
tracking progression against funding?
If the motivation and commitment of
struggling students is not addressed and
they decide to walk away,
there is a direct impact on funding.
If the data is freed up and
shared across a system using
a service-oriented approach,
it could contribute to retaining student
motivation, and thereby maximizing income.
[MUSIC]
And what if across the education
community, there was one standard and
agreed way to describe a course?
It would allow course information to be
made available as a consumable service,
both internally and externally.
This is the subject of a current project
called Exchanging Course Related
Information or XCRI,
encompassing course marketing,
quality assurance, enrollment, and
reporting requirements.
This service-oriented approach
enables aggregated organizations,
like UCAS, to gather the standard and
agreed descriptions of
courses from each provider.
Comprehensive details of approved
enrollment opportunities,
are then returned to a prospective
student for easy and accurate comparison.
[MUSIC]
Amongst the research community,
it is the same principle.
Here, the service-oriented approach
is enabling researchers to
work across institutions
in virtual organizations.
MyGrid is a project that provides a shared
toolkit for creating experiments by
coordinating the information flow between
distributed resources and services.
Workflows and query specifications
link together remote and
local resources using
web service protocols.
Workflows created by myGrid
represent the scientific
process of the experiments they enact,
making them a rich resource for
scientists creating their
own new experiments.
The service layer to this data
enables users to share, re-use, and
re-purpose experiments
within the myGrid community.
[MUSIC]
Many education and research services
are already developing a service-oriented
approach taking their lead
from the business world and
major software developers.
It is in this context that
the e-Framework, a successful and
expanding international initiative,
works to make sense of the
service-oriented approach for
the education and research community.
The e-Framework website identifies and
describes the service components needed.
It provides the blueprints and
reference example for
those in the community who want to
gain a greater understanding and
knowledge of how to implement
a service-oriented approach.
The e-Framework website is thus becoming
a knowledge base that is developing
a shared vocabulary and way of thinking
for all in education and research.
[MUSIC]